 Topic- The Sense of Collective Belonging 

Nationalism spreads within the  country when;
1.unity between people that binds them together .
2.no discrimination between people. 

->Things that played  a part in making of nationalism . 
1 .Symbols  
2.Songs 
3.popular prints and paintings
4.Folklore 
5.Flags
6.History and fiction
 
1.Symbol -it creates identity of nation and symbolisd in a figure or image .

(a)In 20th centuary - visually associated the image BHARATMATA 
(b) It was created by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay.
    

2.Songs-created a feeling of patriotism.

+Bankim Chandra Chattopadhay wrote 'Vande Mataram'.
+'Vande Mataram' was included in novel 'Anandamath'.
+Widely sung during the Swadeshi movement.

3. Popular prints and paintings- it spreads idea of nationalism

+Bharat mata -devotion to this figure to be seen as evidence of nationalism.
(A)Abanindranath Tagore painted- Bharat Mata in 1905.
(B)In this painting Bharat Mata is portrayed as an 
1.ascetic figure 
2. composed,
3. divine 
4.spiritual.
(C)she acquired many diifrent form .
(D)circulated among people 
(E)  painted by many diferent artists 
  

4.Folklore- help to spread idea of nationlism.
 (A)In 19th century 
1.nationalists began recording folk tales.
2 sung by bards. 
3. they toured villages to gather folk songs and legends. 
(B) It gave a true picture of traditional culture.
(C) Essential to preserve this folk tadition.
 example-1. Rabindranath tagore collected balleds, nursery rhymes and myths.
 led the movement for folk revival.
example-2.In Madras, Natesa Sastri published a massive four-volume collection of  Tamil folktales"folklore of Southern India".

5. Flags- help in unifying and inspiring people.
(a) SWADESHI MOVEMENT
1 In Bengal.
2. Tri-colour flag (RED,GREEN,YELLOW)
3. 8-LOTUSES representing eight provision of British India.
4.CRESCENT MOON representing Hinduus and Mulisms.
(B)SWARAJ FLAG-
1. In 1921,Designed by Gandhiji.
2. Tricolour (RED,GREEN,WHITE).
3. spinning wheel in the centre-GANDHIAN IDEAL of self-help.
(c)  Carrying the flag, holding it aloft, during marches become a symbol of defiance.
(d)

6. History and Fiction- creating a feeling of nationalism.
1.Indians began looking into the past to discover India's great achivements.
2.the wrote about the developments in ancient time such as 
(A) Art and architecture,
(B) Science and Mathematics,
(C) Religion and Culture,
(D) Law and Philosophy,
(E)Crafts and Trade.
3.These writing inclued arguments to take pride for India’s great
achievements  in  the  past . 
4. struggle  to  change  the  miserable conditions of life under British rule.


PROBLEMS IN UNIFYING PEOPLE.
1. When the past being glorified was Hindu.
2. When the images celebrated were draw from Hindu iconography.
3. Then people of other communities felt out.  




 